In this video, we're
going to look at
planning and laying
out a dashboard.
A lot of the hard work
has already been done,
the data has been cleaned,
we've created a few pivots,
and Roman has even done a
few simple calculations,
to create some
additional metrics.
We would like to create
one further calculation,
so that we have a
dynamic heading that
always picks up the
most recent year.
We have a max calculation
at the moment,
which gets the most recent
year out of the year column.
When we add the year 2020's data,
this will update to 2020.
To create our calculation.
We're going to click into
"L1" and type equals,
and we're going to call this
renewable energy dashboard,
then type your space,
close your double-quotes and
we're going to use an ampersand,
to concatenate or join our year.
I'm going to click on
"L4"and press "Enter".
When we add our 2020
data, that will update.
Let's go and create
that dashboard.
We're going to click into
our ''Dashboard tab'',
and Roman has already spent
some time thinking
about the design,
and he's followed good
design principles,
in that he has his most
important metrics at the top,
working its way down
to support in detail.
It also has a flow,
so it flows left to right,
which is the way most
of his audience read,
and he's made sure he's
grouped related
information together.
The next thing we
need to decide is
how big to make our dashboard.
We need it to fit on one screen,
and if it's going to print,
it needs to fit on a page.
Roman has given us
some consideration,
and if you come to
your page layout view,
he's changed the
orientation to landscape,
and as long as we go up to
column S, it should fit.
If your page settings
are slightly different,
you just need to make sure
that it fits onto your page.
Now I'm going to come
back to my normal view,
and the next thing
we need to decide,
is what color we want
our background to be.
White is a really good choice,
but if you're going
to curve white,
come to your View tab and
turn off the grid lines.
Roman actually want something
a bit more colorful.
We're going to select
the entire spreadsheet,
come to our Home tab,
come to our paint bucket
and click the drop-down.
Roman selected the
following theme colors,
and we'll look more at
colors in the last video.
But it is really
important that you always
work with the selected
theme colors.
This will not only guarantee
consistency across
your dashboard,
but it will mean that
if you needed to change
your color scheme,
it's a one-click.
We're going to go for the
aqua, and click ''Away''.
It's important in
the dashboard that
related information and controls
for managing that information,
are grouped together, and
often we do this using tiles.
To create a tile, there a few
approaches we could take,
so one would be to select
the cells and then
just change the color.
Now the only problem
with doing that,
is we will be constrained by
the proportions of our column
widths and row heights,
which doesn't leave
as much flexibility.
The other problem is we have
to have square corner tiles,
and we've decided we
want rounded corners.
Instead of that approach,
we're going to use a shape.
To do this, we're going to
come to our ''Insert tab'',
we're going to come to Shapes,
we're going to choose the
rectangle with rounded corners.
It's a click-to-select,
then come to the
top corner of B2,
click-hold and drag
to draw your tile.
We'd like the shape
fill to be black,
and we don't want an outline,
so I'm just going to set those.
It's also easier to work with
more precise dimensions.
So on the right of
our shape format,
we're going to set
our height to be 1.2,
and our width to
be 21 centimeters.
Now if you don't
have centimeters,
if you type the cm,
it will convert whatever unit you
have to the centimeter
equivalent.
If you do have centimeters,
you don't need to type it.
I'm just going to press "Enter".
Now something to be aware of,
if you were to change your
column at so low heights,
the shape would actually
change as well.
We don't want that to happen.
I'm going to press "Ctrl 1" to
open up my format shape panel,
and I'm going to come
to the properties icon,
and if needs be expand
the property section.
The option we need is move
but don't size with cells.
Select that and we
can close that up.
Now rather than going
through all of that again,
I'm going to duplicate my tile.
I'm going to hold
"Ctrl" and press "D".
This one's also going to
be 1.2 centimeters high,
but only 3.5 centimeters wide.
Then I need another two of those,
so holding my control key down,
I'm going to press "D" twice.
We're going to just roughly
put those into place.
We're not going to spend a lot of
time getting them exactly right,
because we're going to
use the Excel tools
for that very shortly.
Now let's create our main tile
to hold our renewable capacity.
I'm going to Control
D to duplicate,
move that down leaving
a nice little gap and
this one is going to be
eight centimeters high
by 32 centimeters wide.
Then we'll just do one last
one Control D and
our next tile is going to be
seven centimeters high
by 15 centimeters wide.
This is going to go
in the last row.
There are two additional
tiles we need,
but we're not going to
worry to create them now.
It is quite important
if you're using
shapes that you make
sure that they line up nicely
and are evenly spaced,
that's what we're
going to do next.
I'm going to select
my three tiles on
the left and then coming up
to my Shape Format ribbon,
I'm going to find the align tools
and I'm going to align them
left and you'll see they all
align left with the
leftmost shape.
So before you press the align,
make sure that the shapes are
right of the leftmost shape
that you want to align them to.
The same is going to
be true on the right.
With this loose shape, I'm
going to actually move it in,
make sure it's below
the top and to
the left of my main
shape and then I'm
going to hold my Shift to select
my main tile and I'm going
to align those right.
Now let's do our top row.
I'm going to select the
four tiles in the top row.
I'm going to click "Align Top",
and then I'm going to choose
Distribute horizontally.
It's still not looking
perfect because you probably
noticed that when you
create a larger rectangle,
it actually gives it a
much more rounded corner.
To adjust the rounding.
If you select the shape,
you get a yellow circle
and if you try that
towards the corner,
it gets smaller and if you drag
it away, it gets more rounded.
The problem is to do that
manually will be quite time
consuming and we're unlikely
to get them all the same.
The good news is, we
know how to use a macro,
and we've actually
created a macro
for you that will change
all the rounded rectangle
corners to the same dimensions.
So little bit of revision,
we're going to come
to our Developer tab.
We're going to come to Macros
and there's our
set corners macro,
we're going to click "Run" and
that's now looking pretty neat.
Let's go and add some
metrics to our tiles.
We'll start with our heading.
I'm going to click on my
first tile and we're going to
link it to the data in our
renewable energy sheet.
We're going to click into our
formula bar type "Equals",
click on Renewable energy,
and then click into
L4 and press "Enter".
We're going to do very much
the same thing for
our mini metrics,
but we just need to
change the alignment,
can you please,
using a shift key,
select the three
small tiles come to
your Home tab and we're
going to make them
align bottom and center.
We're going to click on
our first millimetric tile
and we're going to do what
we did for our heading.
We're going to click into
our formula bar type equals,
come to renewable
energy and click
on our percentage increase
and press "Enter".
You'll see not only did it
pulled through the value,
it pulled through the
formatting as well.
We've got our custom
number format then we
couldn't have done that with
conditional formatting.
Lets have a quick way of
doing that for the others,
we can actually copy the formula.
I'm going to press Control
C, click onto my next tile,
click in my formula bar and
paste and then all I
need to do is change
the M to an N. We'll do that
the same for our last tile,
clicking your formula bar, paste,
Control V, and change M to an O.
Looking good. But obviously we
need some contexts
for these tiles,
so we are going to
need to label them.
One of the easiest ways of doing
that is using a text box.
I'm going to come back
to my Insert tab,
come to shapes and in
your basic shapes,
the first option is a text box.
I'm going to click just to
the right my tiles so you
can see what I'm doing.
I'm going to do the solar,
label so I'm going to type solar.
I'm going to click on the edge of
the text box and we're
going to change the size to
nine and the color,
bright yellow.
This is going to be able to theme
whenever we talk about solar,
We're going to try
make it yellow.
We're then going to drag our
label onto our solar panel,
and picture worth
says 1000 words.
Let's go and add an icon as well.
On our Insert tab, we're
going to come to icons.
We're going to type sun,
if you don't have icons,
these actually have been
included in your workbook,
so you can just
grab one of those.
But if you do, do this with me,
grab anyone you like look
off and I'm going
to click "Insert".
I'd like this to be
a bright yellow as
well and I'm going to change
the dimensions to be 0.8.
I can drag that and drop
that in the top left-hand corner.
I'm going to leave the hydro
and the wind energy
for you to do.
We should also label our
tiles and for speed sake,
I've already created a
few and I'm just going
to drag them in.
You're welcome to do the same.
But I'd actually encourage you to
create your own and have a
little bit of fun with it.
A few things you need to
finish off on the dashboard,
two missing tiles and a couple of
labels and I'll see
you in the next video,
where going to add some charts.